in this lesson we're going to cover
describing external identities in AIA
including busines to business and
business to
customer in the previous lesson we
talked about objects in our ENT tenant
so if I think about my entra ID
environment I have my
particular entra
tenant and we saw that for the for
example user objects I could either
create them as Cloud accounts where I
create them directly in entra or
potentially I had my active
directory domain Services which had
accounts and we could use that entra
connect syn called Cloud sync which
would take those
accounts and create a version of the
account in our ENT tenant and that's
great for our internal users
but I can then think about very often
we're going to work with people outside
of our
organization and there's really two
different categories I could think about
I would want to work with I could think
about the idea that it is a
partner it's someone from another
company that I am collaborating with in
an ongoing basis I want to work on maybe
office documents they want access to my
Enterprise application
they really an extension of some project
I'm working
on also though there would be the
concept of maybe I have
customers I offer some service out to my
customers through an application and I
want them to consume it and that's a
very different type of interaction I'm
not collaborating with them on an Office
document I probably don't want them
showing up in teams or my mail
directories or when I'm trying to Grant
permission s so I want to interact with
them in a very different way but for
both of
these when I think of
entra these are
external
identities and as
mentioned we want to treat them in
different ways now one of the obvious
things you could think about is hey I'll
just create them accounts in my ENT
tenant and that's really not good for
anyone as we talked about for the
customers I may have millions of
customers I do not want millions of
objects added to my ENT tenant it will
make it very hard to navigate it leads
to security challenges it's very hard to
maintain I don't want that the customers
definitely need to be able to handle a
different way and they may have lots of
social
identities that they want to be able to
use and there's lots of different social
identities that exist for my partners
well they probably have some kind of
corporate identity but they don't want
to have a separate account in my tenant
that's work for me that I would have to
maintain maybe reset a password when
they forget it it exposes me to security
problems because they'll probably use
the same password it's painful for them
because they now have to remember a
different password and it's painful for
their company because if they were to
leave well now the company has to go and
quickly try and disable their access on
50 different different partner companies
they may work with so we don't want that
that's not a great solution for anyone
to just create them accounts in our ENT
tenant now as I talked about though we
have to handle them in different ways so
if we start with the partner
idea again these are people we want to
collaborate with this means we want to
be able to give them permissions to
things which means they have to show in
our ENT tenant because remember all of
our applications trust the ENT tenant
but we still want them to authenticate
with their home identity on their home
identity provider so what we want to
do is the idea of business to business
and what happens here is an external
identity type it's not a full account
doesn't have a separate password but it
links to their external identity
provider and the way this would work is
either I have to invite
them we can use things like entitlement
management there are even various flows
that we can enable as part of this or
separate for some kind of self-service
provisioning where they can request to
be added to the tenant but there's a
process that happens that now they would
show up as an external
identity now there are a number of
different identity providers supported
and as we can see here if we look in
entra and external
identities we can see well they could
have an account in a different entra
tenant they could have a Microsoft
account which is more of that Social
account they could have a Facebook
account they could have a Google account
or if they have none of those we can
email them a one-time passcode now the
benefit here
is even though we're having to send them
this code if it's their work email
address if they left that company well
they'd lose access to receive that
onetime passcode they wouldn't be out to
authenticate anymore so we're still
tying it to something associated with
their home
company another option is you can just
manually add a saml or WS fed identity
provider so if they have some other saml
or WS fed provider we can integrate with
them that way but we can see there's a
specific set we support and then I can
can go and invite them or I can set up
the access management the entitlement
management through packages so they can
go and request it but the key point is
they are using their home credential but
remember our conditional
access that remember surrounds our
tenant in every way still applies so
even though they authenticate here I can
still in full requirements that hey I
want a strong authentication I could
have my own MFA or I might trust their
MFA I still have those abilities to do
those checks so B2B they use their home
account we can we saw there were
different types supported so it could be
their entra could be a Microsoft account
we had the
Google we had Facebook we had the
onetime passcode and then obviously you
have the saml
WS fed options there's a very specific
set that we support for that B2B
environment now there is also a another
type that exists when I think of B2B and
that's B2B direct but B2B direct is
really just focused on the idea of teams
so hey I have my teams
client and I want to be able to see all
the other people in the other companies
will B to be direct
gives me that ability now without having
to add every single user I'll be able to
message via teams to share channels for
examples um without having to go and add
them as that external user so B2B direct
has a very very specific use
case and then finally we have our
customers and the point here is we have
some application that we want to make
available to our customers and once
again I don't want them showing up in my
ENT tenant there'd be too many of them I
want to be a to isolate them so
here we can create a completely separate
and it's a different type called a b Toc
tenant now I will stress that many
features are starting to move into
regular entra so there may come a time
where I don't have to use a b2c tenant I
could just create a separate entra
tenant for my customers but today the
functionality is not equivalent I can do
far more customizations I can customize
every pixel and also the b2c supports a
huge range of different social
identities so the key point is we're
really doing an
isolation between our regular corporate
tenant and then this special type of b2c
tenant that supports all these different
social identities and if we jump over
and take a
look if I go to my B to C
and I look at my identity
providers we can see the list is
huge it's way more than we had with the
regular entra tenant where it was
Facebook Google Microsoft account entra
now it has things like
Twitter
WeChat Apple Amazon and notice also we
have this
option local
account so the idea curious and you've
probably seen this before when you've
gone to some site the site says
Hey sign in with your Social account and
it gives you a list of the Social
account so I have the choice that yes I
want to go and sign in with my Social
account so it's going to link to that
external social identity or often what
they say or create a local account where
I then actually go and create that so
for a customer scenario they may not
want to share their soci social identity
with me so if I want to do business with
them I have to give the option to let
them create a local account so we give
them the choice how you can use your
social identity or I'm going to let you
create a local account but the key point
is here I have full branding capability
there's this idea of customize every
pixel I can change every aspect I have
very rich onboarding flows to go and
capture additional
data and
so this is the difference between them
with a
B2B in B2B it's their corporate identity
gets added as a stub object that
represents it that I can then give
permission to my corporate apps my
corporate resources I can collaborate
with them my customers I want in a
separate tenant I want to be able to
support more types of social identities
more customization that fits the brand
and I can also add in additional flows
and then we have that B2B direct which
is really about those shared channels in
teams where I don't want to have to add
every person as an external
identity so this completes the lesson on
describing external identities in aure